High in this video I want to take a look at the usage of the double underscore main double underscore
kind of special string in Python.
So let's go ahead and just create.
I'm going to do this in Python.
I can't do this in a notebook.
So if you want to follow along you can do this either using your favorite Python editor or you can just
basically use you know a text editor saved to file and then just run python from the command line to
invoke.
Which is actually what I'm going to do here.
So let's go ahead and create a run up why file.
So I'm going to create basically my program which is of course a module and let me just comment that
the top the file name.
So I'm going to use an F string and I'm going to say loading Rondout.
P Y.
But I also want to specify what the name means.
Name equals.
And we're going to look at the double underscore and name property of this module.
So if I go ahead and run this and I can run this very easily basically by saying.
So I'm in that directory I can call.
Sorry Python and I can call run doc p y.
OK.
So I get my output the same thing as if I right click here and click on run and I get the same thing.
So the thing that you should notice is that the module name was run p y.
And yet the double underscore name property of the module came back as double underscore main not run
of p y Let's go ahead and create another file.
So I'm going to create this time pay module called module 1.
So while this is a module also a module one copy why.
And I'm going to do the same thing.
I'm going to say print and I'm going to print that f string.
I'm going to say loading module.
Wonder why.
And then we'll say the name equals and I'm going to contemplate the name of the module.
OK.
So we'll do the same thing here and then run all I'm going to do is I'm going to not import module 1
and I want you to see what happens.
Now when I run the program I'm looking to run run.
And you'll notice that loading runs said that the name was double underscore main dumb domain.
But then we got this print from the module one saying.
Loading module one doesn't the name equals module one.
Right.
So in fact it picked up the name of the module.
Now if I was to run module one instead.
So instead of running and calling Rundell P Why.
Let's say I call module wonder why then look what happens.
The name now is done Dumaine.
So basically whenever you invoke a module from the command line when you execute basically your program
there's an entry point to the program and it's a module.
And when you do that then the modules name is changed by Python to double underscore main which means
that you can do certain things for example.
And it's very common to do things like this to say if done the name equals equals done the main case
for which the string done the main that means that module was executed.
OK.
So it was executed by invoking it directly.
Basically as a script and then you might do certain things.
So now if I call module one Doppie why.
You'll notice that I get the print output module was executed but if I call runback why with just import
module one then you'll see that it didn't print the statement over here.
And that's because its name was not double underscore main.
So why can that be useful.
Well let's go ahead and do a small utility module.
So let's create a new module.
Let's call this timing that people right now are trying timing Doppie line.
So now we have this module and let's go ahead and do a few things in there.
So first of all let me comment the name over there and let me give it a docstring
so times.
This is what the small hole is going to be times how long this snippet of code it takes to run
over multiple iterations.
And so all we're going to do here we're basically going to create a function called timeout that's going
to receive a string of valid Python code and it's going to time it it's going to execute it and time
it.
So let's go ahead and do our import.
We're going to need it in need of calendar from time from collections ongoing to import named not name
toppled because I want to return my results from my time function using named topple.
That's a nice thing to do for all users and often am orthonormal going to import this one.
Let's go ahead and just import this.
I'm going to create a timing class named table called timing and it's going to have three things in
there it's going to have the number of repeats that we did.
The total elapsed time and the average elapsed time and you'll see what those mean.
Let's go ahead and write the function.
So here I want a function that's going to receive a chunk of code basically.
And I want a repeats Our argument with a default of 10 that's going to be how many times we're going
to run this code and then we're going to time it and we'll timed the entire amount of time it takes
to run it you know X number of times the repeats number of times and then we'll also calculate the average
hour per hour basically know per run of the code.
So what I could do here we have an exec function you've seen this before we could execute the code like
this.
But of course what it does is that it has to compile the code and then execute it.
So I don't want to incur the cost of recompiling the code every time.
So instead what I'm going to do it's very similar to what we did when we wrote our own importer.
I'm going to compile the code for some of the comput compiled code.
Now we have to specify the file name but the file name.
There is no file name.
So a common thing to do is just to say it came from a string.
OK.
And then the mode is going to be a exec.
Now I'm going to start I'm going to look at my stout valued for per counter and then I'm going to repeat.
I'm going to execute that code that number of times and I'm going to execute the code.
So that's all I have to do to execute the code.
I'm not looking for an output value.
I just want to execute the code and then will again take a look at our current value for both counters.
So I left the pools and minus.
The average equals the elapsed divided by the number of repeats.
And then we're going to return a timing that's it.
We've timed it.
So now we're going to return.
How many times we repeated it.
What was the total amount of elapsed time and what was the average elapsed time.
OK so now we have this module called timing.
So no in run I can go ahead and invoke it.
So I'm not going to do import module one any more and I'm going to take this out.
We don't really need this anymore.
And let's go ahead and time something.
So my code is going to be something maybe like our calculate x squared for x in for doing a list comprehension
for x in range let's say a thousand.
OK so we're going to basically calculate the squares of the first thousand integers starting at zero.
And this is the code that I want to execute.
For now I have to of course import timing.
OK.
So I have to import my module and you'll see what happens.
And let me put over here.
Print loading timing.
OK so we're loading that module
now in run.
That's the code that I want to do.
And so I'm going to say result equals timing docked time at the code that we want.
And then let's say I want to repeat this 100 times and then I'll print the results.
OK.
So very straightforward.
So here I'm going to run run Doppie Y and we get loading timing and then timing repeats equals 100 elapsed
was that amount of time the average was that amount of time.
So that's how long it took.
So if I want something that's going to be a little slower we'll say in range a thousand then we'll execute
that.
Of course it's going to take a little longer.
I'm repeating it 100 times as well.
OK so it came back took 34 seconds total to run an average of 0.3 seconds to basically create this list
of a million numbers squared.
Right.
From based off the range so.
OK so now what happens is that this timing module actually could be pretty useful if we were able to
also call it from the command line.
So not only do I want this time of the function to be available as a module essentially being imported
from a module but I also would like to be able to call it from the command line.
So let's go ahead and code that up.
So let me hide this.
And now what we're going to do is we're going to import good thanks.
So this is going to allow this is a module that will allow us to basically pick up our arguments from
the command line so I might be able to run it like this saying timing dot P Y and I'm might want to
you know give it some arguments you must have seen this before and what I want to do is be able to give
it an argument.
Like for example the code.
OK.
So the code that I want to run in here and I'd like to say the number of repeats maybe I want 100 repeats.
So that's kind of my goal right here is to be able to do something like that.
So let's go ahead and code that up.
Now the thing is I don't want this code what I'm invoking timing dopy why I don't want that code whatever
I'm going to write.
Right.
I'm going to write something here.
I don't want that to run if I'm importing the timing module only want this to run if I'm invoking it
by calling it directly by calling this module basically directly.
Well that's very easy.
We'll just have to say if name is equal equals to dun domain k.
So if the name is Main then we know that we've being called from here.
Right.
Let me just go ahead and just say here.
Print running this command line code.
OK.
So it's not really doing anything right now.
I can't pass that in.
But if I do this we get loading time timing which we would get if we imported it anyways.
But this running this command line code if we were to run run Doppie why we won't see that we'll just
get loading timing.
And I'm going to stop that because this is creating my arm my list comprehension 100 times.
So I'm going to pause the video and cancel this thing out.
OK.
So I just closed the terminal window.
So now let me change this to something that's a little more reasonable and we'll run it 10 times.
I just want to show you that.
Now if I call Python run dopy why I don't get right.
The arm running this command line code.
But if I was to call Python d'arte timing I do get this right so that's the difference.
Now I can leverage that fact.
So let's go ahead and set up our arguments for the command line.
So we want to get code from arguments and we want to get repeat as well.
We want to get code and repeats and we'll call it repeats to keep it consistent with how we've named
our variables in the time it function we don't have to just want to be consistent that way it's easier
to match things up.
So we're going to basically get an argument parser.
And again there's a really good tutorial on this.
It's part of the standard library.
And if you're interested just send me some messages if you want me to do a video on.
Argument passing.
And also only do one of those.
OK so the argument that I can pass it a description and if I'm on my command line and I type a dot dash
H for help it will actually return the description while I have a description kind of already I did
a quick docstring over there.
So I'm just going to grab the docstring of my module and return that as the description.
The next thing I need to do is I need to tell this class that I have some arguments that I'm looking
for.
So the first one is going to be a positional arguments so it's just named basically with whatever it's
going to come back as when I look at the results of passing the arguments I'm going to specify that
the type should be a string.
I'm going to specify a help and I'm going to say this is the Python code snippet to time to something
like that.
Then I'm going to do another argument.
This one is going to be a dash.
So this is going to be an argument that's going to be kind of a keyword argument.
And I can either use Dasch are other long form repeats so that's how you specify those and the type
here is going to be an end.
I'm going to set the default should be 10.
So the user doesn't pass the repeats and will default it to 10 and then the help.
We're just going to say a number of times to repeat the test.
OK.
So this is our argument passage and then we can get the arguments by basically saying pass comes on
the pass or once it's been set up we just call that just to show you what we get.
Let me show you that we can get args dot code and we can then get dark repeats.
So let's go ahead and run this code.
So I'm going to run timing up the Y and I'm going to say code goes here and I'll type put right and
then I can do either a minus.
Well I can do a minus.
Let's say 20 times and you'll see that we got loading timing.
Yes because we ran that k.
So we ran the module so it had to execute the module so we printed that out.
So now I'm going to actually take this out.
We don't really need it anymore.
And you'll notice that it printed out my code goes here which is what I passed here as a positional
argument and then twenty's what I passed here is essentially a keyword argument arm to arms.
OK.
So now that we have that it's pretty straightforward.
Oh and by the way let me show you that if I do a timing of p y minus H for help it will tell me.
OK.
So I get the this is the times how long a snippet of code takes to run over multiple iterations.
That's just my docstring the positional arguments of code the Python code snippet to time.
And then I have my optional arguments that you all minus H and dash dash help comes for free.
The dash R and dash dash repeats is the one that I specified here.
OK.
That I specified in this piece of code over there and the help file comes back.
OK so now that we have the arguments that we can take arguments from the command line all we need to
do is basically time it.
So the first thing I'm going to do is I'm just going to print back the code so I'm going to say with
timing.
Dot code.
Ok so I just want to print that we're timing this piece of code and then we're going to time it.
So let's time it and then we'll set the code equal to Arne's dot code.
It's a string already.
But if you want to be absolutely sure I guess you could put a bill you could force it to a string and
then repeats equals and start repeats.
OK that's it.
And then we just want to do what we want to print this up and because it's a name table it's going to
print up pretty nicely.
So let's go ahead now and run this.
So we have to specify the code Wellfleet code.
I'm going to say X squared for x in range.
I'm not going to use that big number that I had last time just to keep this sane.
So we were in that range.
This is the code and I want to repeat this let's say 15 times OK.
We run this.
It tells us timing that.
And here we go here's the result so wouldn't we achieve here.
Well we were able to call essentially this module and have it do something for us when we called it
directly on the command line.
But if I'm running I can still run this.
And let me just run it from kit.
It doesn't matter it's the same thing.
I can run up the Y.
And let me change that.
So you don't think it's the same code that we say are x cubed.
OK so now if I run Doppie why it timed running x cubed and hit any maybe say print code I'll just do
it this way.
OK.
So let's go ahead and run this so you can see it's running this way.
But you'll notice that it didn't run all this code over there.
And so this is something that's done that's fairly common.
It allows programmers to give modules certain functionality when they're invoked from the command line
but those things don't kind of muddy the waters when you're actually importing the module because you're
using it somewhere else.
And so Python actually has some modules and packages that behave that way.
For example we have the zip file.
So Python.
Well let me go ahead and show you what's in our directory here.
So I have module one Rundell p y timing P Y and I want to create an archive a zip archive of all that.
Now Python has a library for that.
It's called the zip file.
So his zip file you can work with Zip archives and it has all these methods and objects and things in
there.
OK.
So it's a regular you know package and it has a lot of functionality but it also has an ability for
us to actually call it from the command line.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So we're going to say Python we're going to call up the zip file now zip file as a package so I have
to use those inside a package so I need to use this man minus and then I'll get to that later when we
discuss packages.
For now just think that I'm calling this module called zip file.
So I've got a zip file and what I want to do.
Well I want to create So again I'm just passing these command line arguments.
Right.
So I want to create an archive.
So I'm going to call it maybe app got zip and I'm going to add to it.
Module one copy why run up the why and timing of P Why.
So that's how I want to add all of these so now I've got a zip file that was created as you can see
app dot zip and it definitely has content in it.
In fact we can list the content.
We can call zip file minus L on app dot zip and it will tell us what's inside.
So inside the archive we have module one run up P Y and timing duppy y.
So this kind of functionality was achieved you know by using this kind of technique where if you import
zip file it's not going to have all this stuff.
And if we actually called from the command line now we have some extra functionality that uses the contents
of the file right to give us extra functionality.
And at the command line and there are other libraries that do it as well.
We'll see that.
Actually I have a video in the extras section on using the time at module and that's why I kind of use
timing over here.
There's maybe a little bit more sophisticated because you could specify names faces and things like
that but basically it's the same idea where you can either use Tynemouth inside your code you can import
the time at Mordieu or you can use it from the command line.
The way I showed you right here we could use it either way.
OK so one more thing that I want to show you.
Regality the double underscore main There is another usage for that and let me go ahead and I'm going
to rename run.
Well before I do that.
So I'm in my directory here.
Main usage right.
That's my project directory.
So let me go one level up and let me call Python on main usage and as you can see it complains it says
I can't find the double underscore main module but done the module what Python does.
If I try and execute this directory basically it actually goes inside and it looks for a module called
double underscore main and it will then be the starting point.
So it would be the same thing as you know going into main usage and calling main directly so let me
show you that.
Let me go ahead and rename this runner up.
Why I'm going to call it double underscore main double underscore.
So done Dumaine.
OK.
So now this is just a regular module.
It's just has this special name.
So if I go to my main usage
k we can see that it's right here.
It's right there.
So now I can just call Python double underscore main dot p y k that will run just as if it was run up
P Y except it's got this kind of you know funky name over here.
But it does the same thing but because it was called double underscore main dhanda main.
I can now go one level up and I can say Python and main usage.
So now main usage isn't really a module it's a directory that contains my code.
But look what happens.
It ran it right.
So that's kind of pretty handy and I'll show you something else that comes along with that.
Um actually I'll I'll show you right now.
Let me go ahead and what I want to do now.
So let's back let's go back into Main usage.
And I'm going to delete Abdulle zip code because that's in there.
Then what I'm going to do is I'm going to use Python minus the zip file.
I just showed you that I'm going to create let's say a zip file zip archive and let's call it my app
and I'm not even going to give it an extension I'm just going to call it my app and I want to put in
it.
What's.
Well I want to put in it every P Y file to all the C-y files.
OK.
So let's go ahead and let me check that that worked correctly.
So we'll say right on line am.
Zip file minus L.
My app and no it didn't work correctly.
So I'm going to have I think I have to put them.
I don't remember if there was a way to do this.
So let me remove the.
With me delete.
This is Windows.
Delete my app OK.
And I'm going to do this again except I'm going to actually name them.
What do I want.
I want module one.
Actually no I want double underscore main.
OK.
Dopy why.
That's the main point.
I'm putting that double underscore main inside the zip archive.
And of course I need the timing up.
Why.
Because it imports timing of P.
And I don't think the done the main import anything else so we good we don't need to include module
one.
OK.
All right.
Now let's double check again.
That I do have the files now and it was called my app.
And yes they're in there now.
Now you'll notice that this is a zip archive.
My app is a zip file and it contains main you know done the mind of P Y and timing of p y.
But look at this I can call my app which is a zip file and it executes.
So Python is able to actually reach into zip files and get code out of them and in a upcoming video
I'll show you how we can actually put modules in zip files and import modules from inside zip files.
All right.
I think it's a good point to stop.
So thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.